# PODNAME: Bread::Board::Manual::Example
# ABSTRACT: A set of examples of Bread::Board usage

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Bread::Board::Manual::Example - A set of examples of Bread::Board usage

=head1 VERSION

version 0.35

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The goal of this set of documents it to provide examples of how you
can use Bread::Board in different situations. It is still pretty
raw and sparse right now, but more will come soon.

Each example attempts to show a real world problem and how one might
go about solving it with Bread::Board. These examples are currently
are  born out of discussions I had with people about how they might
be able to utilize Bread::Board.

=over 4

=item L<Bread::Board::Manual::Example::LogDispatch>

An example of how to get more dynamic behavior for your dependencies.

=item L<Bread::Board::Manual::Example::FormSensible>

An example of using parameterized containers and dynamic dependencies
together to build a set of re-usable components within an application.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Stevan Little <stevan@iinteractive.com>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website
https://github.com/stevan/BreadBoard/issues

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2011, 2009 by Infinity Interactive.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
