
=pod

=head1 NAME

Bread::Board::Manual - A manual for Bread::Board

=head1 INTRODUCTION

As we have said, Bread::Board is an inversion of control
framework with a focus on dependency injection and lifecycle
management. The goal that Bread::Board strives towards is
to promote more decoupled designs. It does this by removing
the need for your objects to be concerned with resolving
and/or creating their dependencies as well as knowing (or
caring) what their lifecycle is.

=head2 Why should I use Bread::Board

First, it should be noted that Bread::Board and IoC are not
universally useful. Smaller applications and one-off scripts would
be overburdened by the abstractions of Bread::Board. But the larger
your application becomes, the more something like Bread::Board
can help.

As applications grow so the management of resources and their
dependencies becomes more of a burden. Making sure all your
components are properly initialized, in the right order and at all
times that you need them, can become a twisty maze. Bread::Board
is intended to help you manage this twisty maze and remove the need
for you to manage this manually.

Take your typical Catalyst application, the Catalyst framework
itself contains it's own mini IoC framework through the
component subsystem. Catalyst will manage your models and views
making sure that they will be available when you need them in
the controllers. Catalyst makes all this easy to manage through
it's configuration system. This is great inside your Catalyst
application, but what about outside of it? Any sufficiently
complex web application will have a set of scripts and/or
command-line applications to help support it. At this point
you are left to your own devices and must manage these
components and their dependency chains on your own.

By decoupling IoC into it's own stand-alone subsystem it
becomes possible to get that same ease-of-use you get inside
a Catalyst application, outside of it.

This is what Bread::Board aims to provide.

=head1 SECTIONS

=over 4

=item L<Bread::Board::Manual::Concepts>

This is perhaps the best place to start, it will introduce you to
the basic concepts that make up Bread::Board.

=item L<Bread::Board::Manual::Concepts::Advanced>

Bread::Board is an extensible and open system, this document will
explore how you can extend Bread::Board and get greater re-use of
your components.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Stevan Little E<lt>stevan.little@iinteractive.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010 Infinity Interactive, Inc.

L<http://www.iinteractive.com>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
